Liverpool podcast special: Inside the Premier League title winners' 10 steps to glory
*****************
An inside look at recruitment, culture, man management and the staff you may not have heard of
From celebrating a 2-2 draw against West Brom to lifting the Premier League title… In a special Sky Sports Football podcast, Jasper Taylor and Gerard Brand talk through the major steps Liverpool and Jurgen Klopp took in the years preceding their title win.
A squad transformation has played a part, but there is much more behind Klopp's influence at Anfield. Subtle technical changes, attitude shifts and behind-the-scenes genius have made them unstoppable.

Here, we walk through the steps Liverpool took from 2015, off the pitch as well as on it...


Step One - Celebrating a 2-2 draw

How Klopp helped create a comeback culture among Liverpool's supporters.

Step Two - Whispers turn to winners

How qualification for the Champions League on the last day of the 2016/17 season propelled Klopp's side.

Step Three - Coutinho's greatest assist

How Phillipe Coutinho's departure paved the way for a change of style, plus the funds for two special players...

Step Four - A £75m masterpiece

The first, Virgil van Dijk, and how the Netherlands international transformed Liverpool's defence...

Step Five - Safe hands… at last

And second, goalkeeper Alisson has finally brought stability between the sticks.


Step Six - Edwards doing the business

A look at Michael Edwards' business, his fine strike rate for incomings, and an even more impressive yield for players leaving Anfield.

Step Seven - Klopp's right hand man

How Pep Lijnders made Liverpool even better, plus the influence of the fitness coach, nutritionist, and even the throw-in specialist.

Step Eight - Heavy metal becomes organised chaos

How Klopp ditched the 'heavy metal' tag and made Liverpool proactive and dexterous.

Step Nine - The master man-manager

Examples of Klopp's superior man management in allowing players the freedom to do as they please, with trust and responsibility the non-negotiable.

Step Ten - The art of using defeat