THE RALLY: WHAT CAN THE US OPEN LEARN FROM TENNIS' TEACHABLE MOMENTS?
*******************
From Novak Djokovic to Alexander Zverev to Danielle Collins, tennis has had plenty of mistakes demonstrating that nobody should feel they are above the rules.
Hi Joel,

We’ve heard that the pandemic will spur all kinds of innovations, but I’m not sure that putting cardboard cut-outs of fans in the bleachers at sporting events will go down as an historic breakthrough. Would you want to have a photo of your smiling, or screaming, face in the crowd at a tennis tournament?

But this is where we are in the summer of 2020. Increasingly, it’s hard to tell whether we’re getting closer to bringing sports back or farther away.

On the plus side, World TeamTennis (WTT) has put on a safe event at The Greenbrier in West Virginia so far. There are encouraging early signs that the bubbles created by the NBA and MLS in Florida are holding, which should be good news for the US Open. Last week Major League Baseball had its long-delayed Opening Day. Next Monday, the WTA will kick off its 2020 season, for real, in Palermo, Italy. The week after that, Serena Williams is scheduled to return to the court for the first time at a tournament in Kentucky.
On the minus side, the Citi Open, which was set to begin the summer circuit in the U.S., has been cancelled, as have all fall tournaments in China. Travel restrictions—from continent to continent, country to country, and even state to state—are proving difficult to overcome. The biggest problem may be the U.S. itself, which is digging a deeper COVID-19 hole even as much of Europe and Asia opens up. Can an international tennis tour function without a safe and functioning United States?

(Editor's Note: after publishing this story, it was reported that the Miami Marlins organization has suffered a significant COVID-19 outbreak. Following four confirmed cases among players Sunday, it was reported that one third of the traveling roster (11/33) has now tested positive, along with two coaches. Two games scheduled for this evening, including Miami's home opener, were subsequently canceled). 

For our purposes, the big question is whether the US Open will, or should, be played in New York next month. Again, the signs are conflicting. The state’s governor, Andrew Cuomo, wants the Open to happen, but we also learned last week that another major international event normally held in New York in late summer, the United Nations General Assembly, has been canceled.

As a fan, it can be hard to know how to feel about watching sports, or even wanting to watch sports, during a pandemic. Are we asking athletes to take life-threatening risks for our entertainment? Does the need to restart professional leagues expose them as unadulterated money-making ventures? For the most part, having seen what happened in NYC this spring, and then at the Adria Tour in Croatia, I’ve favored caution. The fastest way back to normality for all of us is to contain the virus. But I’ve been encouraged by WTT’s success so far. Maybe bubbles, like the one the US Open is proposing, can work.
