ELI VASILEVA HAPPY WITH CHANCE TO PLAY AGAIN
***********************
Plovdiv, Bulgaria, July 30, 2020 – Some four weeks after joining the training camp of the Bulgarian national team in Plovdiv, Elitsa Vasileva told fivb.com how happy she was with the chance to play volleyball again, after the long pandemic related lockdown.

In 2021, Bulgaria's biggest star and captain is set to lead the team through a campaign in the CEV European Golden League and potentially the FIVB Volleyball Challenger Cup, aiming at readmission to the elite club of teams in the FIVB Volleyball Nations League. Bulgaria also co-hosts the 2021 CEV European Championship, another challenge of high importance for the coach Ivan Petkov's Lionesses.

Bulgaria got close to qualifying for Tokyo 2020 when they were up 2-1 in a crucial intercontinental qualification match in the United States last August, but failed to deliver the big upset and book a ticket to next year’s Olympic Games.

Vasileva has played for top-level club teams from six different countries on three different continents, with the 2010 FIVB Volleyball Club World Championship bronze and the 2011 Italian championship title, both with the team of Norda Foppapedretti Bergamo, among the highest achievements of her club career. With her most recent club, Italy’s Igor Gorgonzola Novara, Eli Vasileva reached the semifinals of the 2019 Club World Championship.

In early July you joined the national team camp. What does it feel like to be in training again after such a long break? How much did you miss volleyball during the isolation?
Elitsa Vasileva: It feels very good. I am very happy for this opportunity to practice again and glad that they managed to schedule such a long training camp for us. In a way, this is a return to the pre-pandemic normality. At the beginning of the lockdown, I took it more as time to take some rest, but as time passed I started missing volleyball more and more, so now I am happy we have a chance to play again.

With some completely new players on the squad, how do you see the team's potential for future success?
Elitsa Vasileva: There really are a lot of young girls with talent and potential, but nothing can be achieved without lots of work. So it completely depends on them (and on us as a team) how hard we are going to work to achieve results.

One of the goals is obviously a good result at next year's CEV European Championship at home. Another main goal is probably the return to the FIVB Volleyball Nations League?
Elitsa Vasileva: Yes, these are our two main targets next year – no discussion. As far as our home EuroVolley, this is our first chance to compete at such a level in Bulgaria, and I think we will all approach it with great ambition. As far as the VNL, we definitely belong there, but it is up to us to prove it, to earn our spot, and then keep it for the years to come. It’s a long process, accompanied by a lot of work, but we have to establish ourselves as a permanent member of the League.